Now, that's an area we haven't covered yet.
Is there big scenario with weapons, both what to do when your assailant has a weapon and what to do
with a weapon yourself.
The vast majority of self-defense programs out there approach weapons the same way, with the same martial
arts based weapons techniques that have been passed down through martial arts schools without a whole
lot of real life field testing.
It always involves some form of disarming or detaching the weapon.
However, this is not very realistic for real life because, again, real life fights are brutal and
vicious.
Add in your panic and your fight or flight response, and you're going to have trouble remembering any
fancy martial arts.
Disarming moves facing a weapon also requires a pretty big mental shift.
Assume that anyone willing to threaten you with a weapon is also willing to kill you with it.
And when you're facing that weapon, I assume that you will get hit, cut, stabbed or shot.
But there is a big difference between getting stabbed or shot while killing someone and getting stabbed
or shot until you are killed.
In a self-defense fight, the best strategy is not to focus on the weapon, but on the man holding the
weapon attack the man.
The weapon is just a tool.
It's powerless without the man wielding it.
So disable, not disarm.
This means just doing one extra move first to quickly deflect or pluck the weapon away from your body
or at least your most vital areas.
Just one quick deflection to make sure you won't be mortally wounded and then immediately launch into
a barrage of our ten basic moves to attack and disable the man holding the weapon.
Try not to keep worrying about what the weapon will do.
As soon as you begin your barrage of strikes, you'll be throwing your assailant off his balance and
concentration.
If you do it right, he'll be more focused on blocking your hits than effectively using his weapon.
The key to defending yourself against a weapon is to take the fight to him.
Action is faster than reaction.
The moves in this lesson aren't pretty, but they are effective and they can save your life.
Of course, the other key thing to remember is that a weapon increases the stakes and risks exponentially.
So if you have any window of escape at all, that is a far better option than engaging with the weapon.
The flip side of this is how to use weapons of your own against your assailant for your basic striking
weapons.
The idea is to go through the same motions as your basic hand strikes you learned earlier, only this
time with a weapon in your hand.
So stabbing with your keys, keychains, pens or knives could use the same technique as your palm strike
and striking or slicing with a stick or baton or also knife could follow the same moves as your blade
or axe hand.
The idea here is that you shouldn't have to learn a new set of movements for this just the same simple
set of basic moves that are widely applicable and adaptable to any situation.
So these moves to try with your weapons of choice and your practice patterns and clothes and buddy if
you have one.
Now, the only weapons that should require learning additional moves to use are pepper spray, tasers
and guns.
These are advanced weapons that I don't recommend carrying unless you really know how to properly use
them.
I also don't have the space or means here to properly show you how to use them.
In my opinion, you really need in-person hands on training for these advanced weapons, especially
if you're new to them.
So if you are seriously considering using any of these three, I strongly urge you to seek out well-reviewed,
professionally certified hands on training.
Now, remember, any time you fight with a weapon, you've upped the ante considerably.
The stakes are higher, and so too the potential for more serious injury and repercussions.
So just as you need to be extra cautious against an armed assailant, you also need to be extra cautious
when using these weapons yourself.
The same rules apply, frankly, even more so about using only as much force as necessary to escape
to safety.
So be smart.
Remember your mental, physical and legal boundaries as you face and or use these weapons and get the
hell out of there as soon as you say we can.